my son pay attention to my wisdom lend
your ear to my understanding that you
may preserve discretion and your lips
may keep knowledge for the lips of an
immoral woman drip honey and her mouth
is smoother than but in the end she is
bitter as wormwood sharp as a two-edged
sword her feet go down to death her
steps lay hold of hell lest you ponder
her path of life her ways are unstable
you do not know them therefore hear me
now my children and do not depart from
the words of my mouth remove your way
far from her and do not go near the door
of her house lest you give your honor to
others and your years to the cruel one
lest aliens be filled with your wealth
and your Labor's go to the house of a
foreigner and you mourn at last when
your flesh and your body are consumed
and say how I have hated instruction and
my heart despise correction
I have not obeyed the voice of my
teachers nor incline my ear to those who
instructed me I was on the verge of
total ruin in the midst of the assembly
and congregation drink water from your
own cistern and running water from your
own well should your fountains be
dispersed abroad streams of water in the
streets
let them be only your home and not for
strangers with you let your fountain be
blessed and rejoice with the wife of
your youth as a loving deer and a
graceful doe that her breasts satisfy
you at all times and always be
enraptured with her love for why should
you my son be enraptured by an immoral
woman and be embraced in the arms of a
seductress for the ways of man are
before the eyes of the Lord and he
ponders all his paths his own iniquities
entrapped the wicked man and he is
caught in the cords of his sin he shall
die for lack of instruction and in the
greatness of his folly he shall go
astray